#summary Provides an overview of the g2 Report Engine project, features, goals and future roadmap
#labels Featured

= About =

The g2 Report Engine is an open source reporting framework that integrates with your Java/J2EE application to produce reports. The project focuses on creating a simple, easy to use API that implements the majority of required reporting features.

A report can be executed directly from Java in 1 line of code... it doesn't get any easier!
{{{
HTMLReportBuilder.build(inputFile,params,outputFile);
}}}

Why another reporting engine, you ask? I need a reporting engine that can ultimately live inside Google App Engine (GAE) or any other "restricted" platform that I may choose. Rather that wait around for the possibility of an existing project to support GAE I thought I would build my own. Of course, this only currently works with JDBC, but that is because I started building this months ago, before GAE/J existed. Now that Java is supported... game on!

The only down side to building your own Reporting Engine is having to create a GUI report designer... if you have any suggestions for this let me know!

= Features =

Key features currently supported:
 * Tabular display of data. Including sorting, grouping and filtering
 * Charts, maps and visualizations (using Google APIs)
 * Custom scripting using javascript
 * Report parameters allow user input, customization
 * Supports multiple formats including HTML and Excel
 * Command line support
 * Servlet support

= Road Map =

The following features are planned for future releases:
 * Aggregations when grouping data rows
 * Pivot table components
 * Improve scripting capabilities
 * Add PDF and Delimited formats
 * Google App Engine support
 * UI for building reports (Eclipse or Netbeans RCP?)